Added some draft slurm submission guidance. (#90)
ImperialCollegeLondon/icl-rcs-user-guide: docs/hpc/pilot/hx2.md

## Job Submission

Job submission on HX2 differs slightly, as it uses the [SLURM Workload Manager](https://slurm.schedmd.com/) as its batch scheduler instead of PBS Pro. Slurm is already widely used at many central HPC facilities across UK universities.

### Key commands

| Slurm Command | PBS Pro equivalent | Description |
| ------------- | ------------------ | ----------- |
| `sbatch` | `qsub` | Submit a job script to the queue |
| `squeue` | `qstat` | Report the state of jobs in the queue |
| `scancel` | `qdel` | Cancel a job in the queue |

### Basic job script

> The following shows an example of basic job script for slurm. It will ask for 1 cpu (based on 1 task x 1 cpus-per-task) for 5 minutes, with a total of 1 GB of RAM. When the job starts it will run `./my_program`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following shows an example of a basic job script for slurm. It will ask for 1 cpu (based on 1 task x 1 cpus-per-task) for 5 minutes, with a total of 1 GB of RAM. When the job starts it will run `./my_program`.
```

```bash
#!/bin/bash
#SBATCH --job-name=test_job
#SBATCH --time=00:05:00
#SBATCH --ntasks=1
#SBATCH --cpus-per-task=1
#SBATCH --mem=1G

./my_program
```

### Submitting Jobs

A submission script can be submitted to the queue using the `sbatch` command. As an example:

```bash
$ sbatch run_my_program.slurm
Submitted batch job 12345
```

When the submission script has been successfully accepted by the queue, the job number will be displayed as an output to sbatch.

### Job Sizing Guidance

> Example partition/queue layout is still being developed. Note that on standard compute nodes, jobs are limited to 142 out of the 144 available cores; 2 cores are set aside to support the Weka file system and operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final partition/queue layout is still being developed. Note that on standard compute nodes, jobs are limited to 142 out of the 144 available cores; 2 cores are set aside to support the Weka file system and operating system. This is increased to 4 cores on GPU nodes, so a maximum of 60 cores can be requested.
```

#### single core jobs

 A single core submission script would look like the following:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
#SBATCH --job-name=test_job
#SBATCH --time=00:05:00
#SBATCH --ntasks=1
#SBATCH --cpus-per-task=1

./my_program
```

#### Multi-threaded jobs (OpenMP/shared memory)

If the program uses threads on a single node:

```bash
#SBATCH --ntasks=1
#SBATCH --cpus-per-task=8
```

What this means:

* `--ntasks=1` -> one process
* `--cpus-per-task=8` -> that process can use 8 CPU cores (threads)

You may also need to set:

```
export OMP_NUM_THREADS=8
```

or

```
export OMP_NUM_THREADS=${SLURM_CPUS_PER_TASK}
```

To control threading within the OpenMP program. 

#### MPI or distributed tasks

If your job supports multiple independent process (such as MPI):

```bash
#SBATCH --ntasks=8
#SBATCH --cpus-per-task=1
```

What this means:

* Slurm launches 8 processes
* Each process gets 1 CPU core

You would launch your processes with:

```
srun ./my_mpi_program
```

or 

```
mpirun ./my_mpi_program
```

> In both cases, the mpi distribution must be suitably configured to work with Slurm (the centrally provided MPI distributions are already configured with this integration).

Reviewer: Do we have a centrally installed MPI yet?

Author: No, not yet
